_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am working on Robotic Policy Learning and Geometric Learning at [The Helping Hands Lab](https://www2.ccs.neu.edu/research/helpinghands/) in [Northeastern University](https://www.northeastern.edu/), advised by Professor [Robert Platt](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/people/robert-platt/) and PhD Candidate [Haojie Huang](https://haojhuang.github.io/). Previously, I conducted research on multiple robotic and computer vision topics: Deep Learning Optimization for 3D Vision, FDM Printing for Soft Robotics, and Healthcare Automated Monitoring System. My past research works are supervised by Prof. [Ziming Zhang](https://www.wpi.edu/people/faculty/zzhang15) at [VISLab@WPI](https://zhang-vislab.github.io/), Prof. [Markus P. Nemitz](https://engineering.tufts.edu/me/people/faculty/markus-nemitz) at [Nemitz Robotics Group](https://sites.tufts.edu/nemitz/), and Prof. [Christopher Nycz](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christophernycz/) at [AIM Lab](https://aimlab.wpi.edu/). CV: [Link](../files/Haotian_Liu_CV_25_SPr.pdf). SoP: [Link](../files/Haotian_Liu_SoP.pdf)

## News

- **June 30, 2024:** Our paper, "Loss Distillation via Gradient Matching for Point Cloud Completion with Weighted Chamfer Distance," has been accepted for an **Oral Presentation** at IEEE/RSJ IROS 2024.
- **January 31, 2024:** Our paper, "Vision-based FDM Printing for Fabricating Airtight Soft Actuators," has been accepted for an **Oral Presentation** at IEEE RoboSoft 2024.

## Research Vision

My long-term research vision is to develop automation systems that are self-adaptive to new environments based on trustworthy data input from perception and learning motion strategies from logistics reasoning. These systems will assist humans in accomplishing challenging tasks in the physical world.

## Selected Publications

<div class="selected-publications">
  <p><li>Policy Learning for Robotic Manipulation</li></p>

  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>MATCH POLICY: A Simple Pipeline from Point Cloud Registration to Manipulation Policies</strong></p>
    <p><i>Haojie Huang, <strong>Haotian Liu</strong>, Dian Wang, Robin Walters*, and Robert Platt*</i> (* Equal Advising)</p>
    <p>IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation <a href="https://2025.ieee-icra.org/">ICRA 2025</a> at Atlanta USA, <a href="https://www.arxiv.org/abs/2409.15517">PDF</a>, <a href="https://haojhuang.github.io/match_page/">Project Page</a></p>
    <img src="images/match_policy.png" alt="Match Policy" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>
  
  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>IMAGINATION POLICY: Using Generative Point Cloud Models for Learning Manipulation Policies</strong></p>
    <p><i>Haojie Huang, Karl Schmeckpeper*, Dian Wang*, Ondrej Biza*, Yaoyao Qian**, <strong>Haotian Liu</strong>**, Mingxi Jia**, Robert Platt, and Robin Walters</i> (*, ** Equal Contribution)</p>
    <p>Conference on Robot Learning <a href="https://www.corl.org/">CoRL 2024</a> at Munich, Germany, <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11740">PDF</a>, <a href="https://haojhuang.github.io/imagine_page/">Project Page</a></p>
    <img src="images/imgPolicy.png" alt="Imagination Policy" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>

  <p><li>Deep Learning Optimization for 3D Vision</li></p>

   <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>GPS: A Probabilistic Distributional Similarity with Gumbel Priors for Set-to-Set Matching</strong></p>
    <p><i><strong>Haotian Liu</strong>*, Fangzhou Lin*, Ziming Zhang*, Jose Morales, Haichong Zhang, Kazunori Yamada, Vijaya B Kolachalama, Venkatesh Saligrama</i> (* co-first author)</p>
    <p>International Conference on Learning Representations <a href="https://iclr.cc/">ICLR 2025</a> at Singapore, <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=U0SijGsCHJ">PDF</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Zhang-VISLab/ICLR2025-GPS.git">Code</a></p>
    <img src="images/gps.png" alt="GPS" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>

  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>Loss Distillation via Gradient Matching for Point Cloud Completion with Weighted Chamfer Distance</strong></p>
    <p><i><strong>Haotian Liu</strong>*, Fangzhou Lin*, Haoying Zhou*, Songlin Hou*, Kazunori Yamada, Gregory S. Fischer, Yanhua Li, Haichong K. Zhang, and Ziming Zhang</i> (* co-first author)</p>
    <p>IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems <a href="https://iros2024-abudhabi.org/">IROS 2024</a> at Abu Dhabi UAE, <strong>Oral Presentation</strong>, <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06171">PDF</a>, <a href="https://github.com/seanliu7081/LossDistillationWeightedCD_IROS24.git">Code</a>, <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BoKFYu1weEQomJB_u7ATCbDfiqRkEywd/view?usp=sharing">PPT</a></p>
    <img src="images/lossDistill.png" alt="Loss Distillation" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>
  
  <p><li>Healthcare Automation Monitoring System</li></p>
  
  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>Automated Control of External Ventricular Drain for Neuro-ICU</strong></p>
    <p><i><strong>Haotian Liu</strong>, Yujie Guo, Haoran Zhang, and Matthew Duncan</i></p>
    <p><strong>Bachelor Thesis</strong>, <a href="https://digital.wpi.edu/concern/student_works/gm80j077x?locale=en">PDF</a>, <a href="https://github.com/seanliu7081/EVD-Linear-Actuator-Control">Code</a></p>
    <img src="images/EVD_show_pic.JPG" alt="Auto EVD" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>

  <p><li>FDM Printing for Soft Robotics</li></p>

  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>Vision-based FDM Printing for Fabricating Airtight Soft Actuators</strong></p>
    <p><i>Yijia Wu*, Zilin Dai*, <strong>Haotian Liu</strong>, Lehong Wang, and Markus P. Nemitz </i> (* co-first author)</p>
    <p>IEEE-RAS International Conference on Soft Robotics <a href="https://robosoft2024.org/">RoboSoft 2024</a> at San Diego USA, <strong>Oral Presentation</strong> <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01135">PDF</a></p>
    <img src="images/website_pics/roboSoft_2024.png" alt="Vision Printing" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>
  
</div>

## Services
Reviewer of: NeurIPS, ICLR, AISTATS, ICML

<style>
  .selected-publications {
    margin-top: 20px;
  }
  .publication {
    margin-bottom: 30px;
    overflow: hidden;
  }
  .publication h4 {
    margin-bottom: 5px;
  }
  .publication p {
    margin: 5px 0;
  }
  .publication img {
    border: 1px solid #ddd;
  }
</style>

Commit message:

Update about md with contact details
Added contact information to the about page.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am working on Robotic Policy Learning and Geometric Learning at [The Helping Hands Lab](https://www2.ccs.neu.edu/research/helpinghands/) in [Northeastern University](https://www.northeastern.edu/), advised by Professor [Robert Platt](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/people/robert-platt/) and PhD Candidate [Haojie Huang](https://haojhuang.github.io/). Previously, I conducted research on multiple robotic and computer vision topics: Deep Learning Optimization for 3D Vision, FDM Printing for Soft Robotics, and Healthcare Automated Monitoring System. My past research works are supervised by Prof. [Ziming Zhang](https://www.wpi.edu/people/faculty/zzhang15) at [VISLab@WPI](https://zhang-vislab.github.io/), Prof. [Markus P. Nemitz](https://engineering.tufts.edu/me/people/faculty/markus-nemitz) at [Nemitz Robotics Group](https://sites.tufts.edu/nemitz/), and Prof. [Christopher Nycz](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christophernycz/) at [AIM Lab](https://aimlab.wpi.edu/). CV: [Link](../files/Haotian_Liu_CV_25_SPr.pdf). SoP: [Link](../files/Haotian_Liu_SoP.pdf) Contact: seanliu0272[At]gmail[Dot]com

## News

- **June 30, 2024:** Our paper, "Loss Distillation via Gradient Matching for Point Cloud Completion with Weighted Chamfer Distance," has been accepted for an **Oral Presentation** at IEEE/RSJ IROS 2024.
- **January 31, 2024:** Our paper, "Vision-based FDM Printing for Fabricating Airtight Soft Actuators," has been accepted for an **Oral Presentation** at IEEE RoboSoft 2024.

## Research Vision

My long-term research vision is to develop automation systems that are self-adaptive to new environments based on trustworthy data input from perception and learning motion strategies from logistics reasoning. These systems will assist humans in accomplishing challenging tasks in the physical world.

## Selected Publications

<div class="selected-publications">
  <p><li>Policy Learning for Robotic Manipulation</li></p>

  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>MATCH POLICY: A Simple Pipeline from Point Cloud Registration to Manipulation Policies</strong></p>
    <p><i>Haojie Huang, <strong>Haotian Liu</strong>, Dian Wang, Robin Walters*, and Robert Platt*</i> (* Equal Advising)</p>
    <p>IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation <a href="https://2025.ieee-icra.org/">ICRA 2025</a> at Atlanta USA, <a href="https://www.arxiv.org/abs/2409.15517">PDF</a>, <a href="https://haojhuang.github.io/match_page/">Project Page</a></p>
    <img src="images/match_policy.png" alt="Match Policy" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>
  
  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>IMAGINATION POLICY: Using Generative Point Cloud Models for Learning Manipulation Policies</strong></p>
    <p><i>Haojie Huang, Karl Schmeckpeper*, Dian Wang*, Ondrej Biza*, Yaoyao Qian**, <strong>Haotian Liu</strong>**, Mingxi Jia**, Robert Platt, and Robin Walters</i> (*, ** Equal Contribution)</p>
    <p>Conference on Robot Learning <a href="https://www.corl.org/">CoRL 2024</a> at Munich, Germany, <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11740">PDF</a>, <a href="https://haojhuang.github.io/imagine_page/">Project Page</a></p>
    <img src="images/imgPolicy.png" alt="Imagination Policy" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>

  <p><li>Deep Learning Optimization for 3D Vision</li></p>

   <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>GPS: A Probabilistic Distributional Similarity with Gumbel Priors for Set-to-Set Matching</strong></p>
    <p><i><strong>Haotian Liu</strong>*, Fangzhou Lin*, Ziming Zhang*, Jose Morales, Haichong Zhang, Kazunori Yamada, Vijaya B Kolachalama, Venkatesh Saligrama</i> (* co-first author)</p>
    <p>International Conference on Learning Representations <a href="https://iclr.cc/">ICLR 2025</a> at Singapore, <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=U0SijGsCHJ">PDF</a>, <a href="https://github.com/Zhang-VISLab/ICLR2025-GPS.git">Code</a></p>
    <img src="images/gps.png" alt="GPS" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>

  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>Loss Distillation via Gradient Matching for Point Cloud Completion with Weighted Chamfer Distance</strong></p>
    <p><i><strong>Haotian Liu</strong>*, Fangzhou Lin*, Haoying Zhou*, Songlin Hou*, Kazunori Yamada, Gregory S. Fischer, Yanhua Li, Haichong K. Zhang, and Ziming Zhang</i> (* co-first author)</p>
    <p>IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems <a href="https://iros2024-abudhabi.org/">IROS 2024</a> at Abu Dhabi UAE, <strong>Oral Presentation</strong>, <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06171">PDF</a>, <a href="https://github.com/seanliu7081/LossDistillationWeightedCD_IROS24.git">Code</a>, <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BoKFYu1weEQomJB_u7ATCbDfiqRkEywd/view?usp=sharing">PPT</a></p>
    <img src="images/lossDistill.png" alt="Loss Distillation" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>
  
  <p><li>Healthcare Automation Monitoring System</li></p>
  
  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>Automated Control of External Ventricular Drain for Neuro-ICU</strong></p>
    <p><i><strong>Haotian Liu</strong>, Yujie Guo, Haoran Zhang, and Matthew Duncan</i></p>
    <p><strong>Bachelor Thesis</strong>, <a href="https://digital.wpi.edu/concern/student_works/gm80j077x?locale=en">PDF</a>, <a href="https://github.com/seanliu7081/EVD-Linear-Actuator-Control">Code</a></p>
    <img src="images/EVD_show_pic.JPG" alt="Auto EVD" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>

  <p><li>FDM Printing for Soft Robotics</li></p>

  <div class="publication">
    <p><strong>Vision-based FDM Printing for Fabricating Airtight Soft Actuators</strong></p>
    <p><i>Yijia Wu*, Zilin Dai*, <strong>Haotian Liu</strong>, Lehong Wang, and Markus P. Nemitz </i> (* co-first author)</p>
    <p>IEEE-RAS International Conference on Soft Robotics <a href="https://robosoft2024.org/">RoboSoft 2024</a> at San Diego USA, <strong>Oral Presentation</strong> <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01135">PDF</a></p>
    <img src="images/website_pics/roboSoft_2024.png" alt="Vision Printing" style="max-width: 200px; float: right; margin-left: 20px;">
  </div>
  
</div>

## Services
Reviewer of: NeurIPS, ICLR, AISTATS, ICML

<style>
  .selected-publications {
    margin-top: 20px;
  }
  .publication {
    margin-bottom: 30px;
    overflow: hidden;
  }
  .publication h4 {
    margin-bottom: 5px;
  }
  .publication p {
    margin: 5px 0;
  }
  .publication img {
    border: 1px solid #ddd;
  }
</style>
